JSG-CG
JustSomeGamers Community Guidelines
 
These Guidelines do not set rules for our community.
It explains who we are, what we do, and how things work in our community.
As JustSomeGamers grows and evolves so will the sections in the Guidelines.
 
Sections
1. Being just some gamer
2. Becoming a Member
3. Mumble Etiquette
4. Powered Users: Info Breakdown
- Host
- Moderator
- Administrator
5. Events and Programs
- Events
- Programs
#. Common Questions & Concerns
- Q&A
- Gui's 5 Whats
 
1. Being just some gamer
Gaming is an experience because unlike any other media it is naturally
interactable. You can change it, become apart of it. An almost literal
sense of "one-ness" that can bring you away from real life and into a
fantasy realm, or a futuristic space fight, or whatever creative and
imaginative world today's game developers spend their time to develop.
 
Arguably, the best games are ones with multiplayer. We love gaming with
our friends and at times our family; even playing with complete strangers
can be a ton of fun, because though actions we have with strangers we
create our friends. When we find someone we really love to play with, it
doesn't matter what games we play: we will always put our friends above
the games we play.
 
This is the basis of everything JustSomeGamers is based on. A group
that does not care about your age, voice, game skills, sex, or any bias.
But looks at you based on your character, maturity, and individual
personality. It is though a community that supports this view only that
we can break the idea of the steriotypical basement dwelling gamer.
 
Gaming has now been intergrated into a new generation of kids. For them
to grow up in any gaming group that says "Attend our drill or get kicked!"
is unacceptable. What if that person is being called to sit down and eat
dinner with their family? The gaming group is now putting pressure on people
to miss events with their family or give up relationships they developed
withing a group. This is why some people cannot commit to a group or never have.
 
JustSomeGamers is built on the idea of Family Anarchy. NOT "anarchy" as in
someone with a molatov coctail and anonymous maks shouting "No goverment!",
but Anarchy as in the right to do what you want with yourself as a free,
independent, beutiful individual so long it does not effect the rights of
another person. Surprisingly this is not a political group, but a gaming
community. (maybe we should run for office...)
 
The "Family" part is to show the values put into this community. We have
a Code that every member honors and stands by. It's not very demanding
and describes the ideal scene we should all behave in.
 
1. Honor, Respect and Protect our Freinds, Members, and Community.
2. We must always value our friends over the games we play.
3. Practice good character and sportsmanship with all players.
4. Our enemies are elitism, drama, and the negative state of mind.
5. If I am IN-GAME, I will also be on our community's voice server.
 
Each Code is read by every member of JustSomeGamers in front of a current
member and recorded as proof. This and ensures that every members understand
the ethics behind our community.
 
We alsohave a time to sit down and talk that we call the Town Hall Meeting.
This isn't really a "meeting" but really everybody in the community coming
together to discuss recent events and plans made. It also lasts just as long
as most dinners. (30 minutes to 1 hour, but the farther we get from the 30 min
mark the more we prompt everybody to finish their discussions.)


2. Becoming a Member
First off, we expect every person who is joining our Steam Group to understand
that they are becoming Member. All Members have an obligation to follow the
Community Code: a short list of rules that every Member must follow. Then just
introduce yourself on the Steam Discussions. There will be a link on the Steam
Group page that'll take you right to it. Once you make an introduction, other
members will be notified of your thread and some will welcome you personally to
the community.


3. Mumble Etiquette
Every person in Mumble is expected to follow proper Mumble Etiquette.
Failure to follow Etiquette multiple times in a row will lead to the offender
being removed from the community. This ensures that there is nobody running
around the Mumble inturrupting people's lobbies or conversations.

1st Rule of Etiquette: Listen before you speak when you enter a channel.
Reason for doing so, is that if you hop into a channel and say "Yo, what's up?"
you stand a good chance of inturrupting a person's conversation. Even if you go
into a channel with the best of intentions (even if some of the people inside
the channel are your frieds) it's proper Etiquette to LISTEN before you SPEAK.

2nd Rule of Etiquette: When asked by players in a channel "Can you please leave
the channel?" you must awknowledge their request and leave the channel.
Reason for doing so, is that some people want to have a privite conversation or
just be in a small lobby with just some personal friends. DO NOT back-talk
people who request you to leave, this give THEM the right to ask a Moderator
to move you or ban you from entering that channel. So when asked, please leave.

The general rule of thumb with "Who can say you must leave?" question, is the
first in is host. So if you want to have a privite conversation, you ask people
to leave. If you don't care exactly who joins but just want to have a plesant
time, then just make sure others are also following the Code and Etiquette
rules. A happy Mumble is one that has manners.

3rd Rule of Etiquette: Have the Skype process off on your computer.
Reason for doing so, is that many of the Members of JustSomeGamers are very
security conscious. Skype has many vulnerabilities, requires your email, has
ads on it, and a very shotty service for voice chat with groups of people.
Mumble, has none of these problems; and everything uses military grade
encryption. Please do not let Skype collect any data from Mumble or your mic.

If you have friends on Skype, please tell them to download Mumble and connect
to the server. The JSG Mumble is open for non-members to use as well because
we just care about your security. Not to mention, that our Mumble also has
DDoS protection. Follow the previous two rules of Mumble Etiquette and you will
have a nice, quiet, privite channel for you and your friends (or family even)
to use with military grade security.

4th Rule of Etiquette: Do not leave Mumble if you think nobody will join you or
if someone you are looking for is not currently online Mumble.
Reason for doing so, is to keep Mumble consistant with the people ingame. If
two guys are playing DayZ are in Mumble, and then hop into the DayZ channel,
these two guys who never knew eachother before are now working as a team.
If these two didn't hop on Mumble they would of never met. So even if you plan
to play solo, you still want to be on Mumble.

Sometimes, people leave Mumble because of the second reason. "Someone you are
looking for is not currently online Mumble." The proper Etiquette thing to do
is wait for them. Because if you disconnect, and then the person you are
looking for just then connects, it creates this enless cycle of you and that
person disconnecting and reconnecting looking for eachother. So please wait
when you're looking for a specific person.

5th Rule of Etiquette: When talking to real life friends in Mumble, refer to
them as their Mumble name. Lots of people have the same first name in JSG, but
everybody has different usernames. It's cool if you're in a channel with only
real life friends in it; that's totally fine. Just when other members come in
or even some of your online friends do, refer to your real life friends by
their Mumble name.


4. Powered Users: Info Breakdown
The term "Powered Users" actually was made up because we got really tired of
saying "...the Hosts, Moderators, and Admins..." as it takes way too long. So,
instead Powered Users will refer to these 3 ranks in our community. We'll go
down each rank, starting with Hosts, and describe what it is they do and the
caliber or type of person you should expect a specific rank to be.

- Host
Imagine the guy who makes a lobby and invites his friends. Then organizes the
lobby into something that is fun to be part of. Everybody in gaming is familiar
with the idea of a host. Though this is the only gaming group that has a Hosts
rank to awknowledge who these people are. Nobody who "just makes a lobby" gets
to automadically become a Host.

Hosts are the type of people we expect to get us together. They invite you to
lobbies on a regular basis, they are polite, follow and teach Mumble Etiquette,
and can handle most people who start drama or become annoying to their lobby
members. To help Hosts manage these things they gain MOVE and MUTE powers on
Mumble. These permissions, if abused, 

Essentially, Hosts will help Mods and Admins manage the Mumble. Hosts take the
pressure off Mods and Admins that at times need to focus on solving technical
issuse with server or resolve drama. That's why teaching things like the Code
and Mumble Etiquette is necessary for a Host to do: it helps the Host set the
tone for his lobbies so Hosts can keep everything clean.

- Moderator
There are more serious tasks that Hosts do not want to handle at times. Mods
can be seen as the garbage collecters of the group because they take out the
trash. They have the responsibility to have a close eye on the group and make
sure everything is at peace. Mods should also seem more friendly in JSG
because all Mods must have masterful experience as Host.

Mods are the type of people we expect to ensure order is achieved. Moderators
continue to hold their Host obligations, and become more accountable with the
technical aspects of the community. Create offical voting threads, make sure
that the Code and Mumble Etiquette is followed, and when someone starts acting
in a questionable way you start asking questions. (< refering to rude behavior)

Some of the trash that Mods handle can be simple like kicking inactive members
from the Steam Group, and requesting a member to follow the 5th Code; to things
that can escalate like drama or demoting a Host. Stopping people from abusing
music bots, taking members aside for rude behavior during events (screaming or
expressing "I think this is stupid just because." opinions), and a plethora of
minor things that help clean up the group.

> All the specifics will be developed by the community in the Moderator's
Handbook. Not really a "how to" handbook, just a specialized version of the
Guidelines for Moderators. <

- Administrator



5. Events and Programs
Events are the key part of any gaming group. They bring the best and biggest
lobbies, and some of the most memorable moments of being with your friends and
group members. JSG has events very often because it's stressed that we treat
events like sitting at the dinner table with your family. It builds integrity
in a community and strengthens the relationships that people create.

- Events

- Programs

Now the events come in JSG are specific: Events are planned lobbies that the
entire community is involved with automadically. You agree to join in on events
as a member. 
	
	"Planned lobbies that the entire community is involved with automadically."

A Program 



#. Common Questions & Concerns
New and veteran Members ask some specific questions, and I'd like to address
some of those questions in this section. Mostly to get rid of any possible
rumors or confusion getting spread between conversations.

- Q&A

Question 1: Do I always have to be on Mumble?

Answer: No, the Code specifically states that you are on Mumble when you get
IN-GAME. It's on the part of Members to get on Mumble. The Powered Users will
meet you halfway and set up the Programs, Events, and the infrastructure of the
community; and Members are expected to meet halfway back and hop on Mumble, and
contribute to any Programs that they like.

Question 2: I have friends on Skype that don't want to download Mumble. What
are some things that I can do?

Pursuade them about the insecurity of using Skype in the first place and that
Mumble doesn't show ads, dosen't require an sign-up, and has better voice chat
and encryption. Our server has DDoS protection and has very well mannered
people who will respect your privacy in channels. If your friend won't at least
try out Mumble you probably need to ask "What will this guy do if I ask for
help in the future?" Emphasize your friendship and put it above the games that
you play.

- Gui's 5 Whats
Named after one of the members (Guissok), he brought up the basic questions
regarding attendence at Game Night. Pretty much this is like a short Q&A of
critical questions.

Q: What if I do not have the game?
A: Then you do not have to come to Game Night. If you can try to get your
hands on a copy. Though, if the game is Free 2 Play then you already "own" the
game and now you need to just install it.

Q: What if I do not like the game?
A: In a nutshell "You still have to come, because members should always value
our friends over the games we play." So tolerate playing a game you don't like
for one day and you'll find it'll still be fun when you're playing with
frineds.

Q: What if I do not have the game installed?
A: Then install it. It's not a problem unless you're in an area with a limit on
your internet bandwidth. You get 5 days between Town Hall and Game Night to get
it installed.

Q: What if I can not run the game?
A: Then there's not much that can be done. You can try and install it and play
it on very low settings; if you can't run the game nothing will be held against
you.

Q: What if I just have other $h!% to do?
A: We have a thing called the PAR Triangle (Personal Accountability and
Responsibility) We put matters of our family at the top, then our friends and
community equally together, and finally our games at the bottom. If something
comes up with our family, then it over-rides any responsibilites we have to our
friends and community period. So if you have other stuff to do get it done and
come back when you can enjoy the time you spend playing games with us.